[IMP] inventory: update expiration dates doc (#3899)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/lots_serial_numbers/expiration_dates.rst

=================================================
Manage perishable products using expiration dates
=================================================

In Odoo, *Expiration Dates* can be used to manage (and track) the lifecycles of perishable products,
from purchase to sale. Expiration dates help to reduce product loss due to unexpected expiry, and
helps to avoid sending expired products to customers. In Odoo, products that are tracked using
*Lots* and *Serial Numbers* can be assigned expiration information. This is especially helpful for
companies (such as food manufacturers) that consistently (or exclusively) buy and sell perishable
products.

Configuration
=============

To enable the use of *Expiration Dates*, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration -->
Settings`, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section. Then, click the

> :guilabel:`checkbox` to enable the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature. Once that feature is

Author: I get that as well... since it is technically UI that you interact with (click on) I went with a `:guilabel:`. I'm gonna leave this for final review

activated, a new option will appear to enable :guilabel:`Expiration Dates`. Click that
:guilabel:`checkbox` to enable the feature, and be sure to :guilabel:`Save` changes.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-enabled-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled lots and serial numbers and expiration dates settings.

.. tip::
  Once the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature is activated, additional features appear to
  :guilabel:`Display Lots & Serial Numbers on Delivery Slips`; to
  :guilabel:`Display Lots & Serial Numbers on Invoices`; and to

>   :guilabel:`Display Expiration Dates on Delivery Slips`. Activating all of these features helps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :guilabel:`Display Expiration Dates on Delivery Slips`. Activating these features helps
```

  with end-to-end traceability, making it easier to manage product recalls, "bad" batches of
  products, and more.

Configure expiration dates on products
======================================

Once :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` and :guilabel:`Expiration Dates` have been enabled in the
settings, expiration information can be configured on individual products. To do that, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Products`, and select a product to edit. Once on the
product form, click :guilabel:`Edit` to make changes.

.. important::
  To be tracked using lots or serial numbers, or to have expiration information configured,
  products *must* have their :guilabel:`Product Type` set as :guilabel:`Storable Product` under the
  :guilabel:`General Information` tab.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section.
From here, make sure that either :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number` or :guilabel:`By Lots` is

> checked. Once it is, a new :guilabel:`Expiration Date` checkbox will appear that will also need to

Author: Added a `note` to address this

be clicked. Once both of those are enabled, a new :guilabel:`Dates` field will appear to the right.

.. tip::
  For processing large quantities of products on receipts or deliveries, it is recommended to track
  :guilabel:`By Lots`, so multiple products can be traced back to the same lot if any issues arise.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-product-configuration.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Expiration dates configuration on the product form.

Under the :guilabel:`Dates` field, there are four categories of expiration information to
configure for the product:

- :guilabel:`Expiration Time`: is the number of days after receiving products (either from a
  vendor or in stock after production) in which goods may become dangerous and should not be

>   consumed.

Author: Good catch, added some clarification here to avoid confusion

- :guilabel:`Best Before Time`: is the number of days before the expiration date in which the
  goods start deteriorating, *without* necessarily being dangerous yet.
- :guilabel:`Removal Time`: is the number of days before the expiration date in which the goods
  should be removed from stock.
- :guilabel:`Alert Time`: is the number of days before the expiration date in which an alert
  should be raised on goods in a particular lot or containing a particular serial number.

.. note::
  The values entered into these fields will automatically compute the expiration date for goods
  entered into stock, whether purchased from a vendor or manufactured in-house.

Once all the expiration information has been configured, :guilabel:`Save` changes.

.. tip::
  If the :guilabel:`Dates` field is not populated with any values for expiration information, dates

>   (and lots) can be manually assigned upon receipts and deliveries in and out of the warehouse.

Author: Yes -- good catch. Added that in the `tip`

  without a lot or serial number being assigned.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-user-error-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: User error popup when validating an order with no lot number.

From here, click the :guilabel:`Additional Options` menu (hamburger) icon, and a
:guilabel:`Detailed Operations` popup will appear. Click :guilabel:`Add a line`, and assign a lot
or serial number under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number Name` field. An expiration
date will automatically populate based on the configuration on the product form. Mark the
:guilabel:`Done` quantities, and click :guilabel:`Confirm` to close the popup. Finally, click
:guilabel:`Validate`.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-detailed-operations-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Detailed operations popup showing expiration dates for ordered products.

A :guilabel:`Traceability` smart button will appear upon validating the receipt. Click the
:guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the :guilabel:`Product` being traced; the

> :guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`; and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`, and more.
```

Set expiration dates on manufactured products
=============================================

> Expiration dates aren't generated exclusively for products received from purchase orders; they can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expiration dates can also be generated for products manufactured in-house.
```

   :alt: Dates tab with expiration information for specific lot number.

Sell products with expiration dates
===================================

Selling perishable products with expiration dates is done the same as any other type of product.
The first step in selling perishable products is to create a sales order. To do that, go to
:menuselection:`Sales --> Create` to create a new quotation, and fill out the information. Add a
:guilabel:`Customer`, click :guilabel:`Add a product` to add products to the :guilabel:`Product`
lines, then set a :guilabel:`Quantity`.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab. Under the :guilabel:`Delivery` section, change the
:guilabel:`Delivery Date` to a date after the expected date, and click the
:guilabel:`green checkmark` to confirm the date. Finally, :guilabel:`Confirm` the sales order.

Click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button at the top of the sales order to be taken to the
warehouse receipt form. Click :guilabel:`Validate` and :guilabel:`Apply` to process all
:guilabel:`Done` quantities and deliver the products. If the products are delivered before
the :guilabel:`Alert Date` set on the product form, then no alerts will be created.

> .. note::

Author: Good call

  To sell perishable products with expiration dates, the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` for the
  :guilabel:`Location` the products are stored in must be set to
  :abbr:`FEFO (First Expiry, First Out)`. If there is not enough stock of perishable products in
  one lot, Odoo will automatically take the remaining quantity required from a second lot with the

>   next-soonest expiration date. Removal strategies can also be set on

Author: Agreed

  :guilabel:`Product Categories`.

View expiration dates for lots & serial numbers
===============================================

To view and group all products with expiration dates by lot number, go to :menuselection:`Inventory
--> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. Remove any :guilabel:`Filters` in the
:guilabel:`Search bar`, then click :guilabel:`Group By`, :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and click

> the :guilabel:`drop-down` to select :guilabel:`Expiration Date.` :guilabel:`Apply` the filter. This

Author: I'm gonna leave it for now and refer to final review

> the :guilabel:`drop-down` to select :guilabel:`Expiration Date.` :guilabel:`Apply` the filter. This

Reviewer 2: I agree with JERO's comment re: "drop down" guilabel usage - but I'm sure ZST will clarify that for you real quick~

:guilabel:`Product` :guilabel:`drop-down` menu, and choose a :guilabel:`Quantity` to produce.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-manufacturing-order.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Manufacturing order for product with expiration date.

.. note::
  To manufacture a product, there need to be materials :guilabel:`To Consume` in the
  :guilabel:`Product` lines. This can be achieved either by creating a :guilabel:`Bill of Material`
  for the :guilabel:`Product`, or manually adding materials to consume by clicking
  :guilabel:`Add a line`.

Click :guilabel:`Confirm`. Then, next to :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`, either select an existing
lot number from the :guilabel:`drop-down` menu, or click the green :guilabel:`+` sign to
automatically assign a new lot number. Then, mark the done :guilabel:`Quantity`, and
:guilabel:`Mark as Done`.

Click on the assigned :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` to be taken to a form for that number. Under
the :guilabel:`Dates` tab, all expiration information previously configured for the product will be
available. The same information is also available directly from the product form, or by going to

> :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Reviewer 2: Click on the :guilabel:`External Link` icon in the assigned :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` field, and a pop-up appears, revealing a detail form for that specific number. 

On that pop-up, under the :guilabel:`Dates` tab, all expiration information that was previously configured for the product is displayed. That same information is also available on the detail form for that specific product, or by going to :menuselection:`Inventory application --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-dates-tab-lot-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Dates tab with expiration information for specific lot number.

Sell products with expiration dates
===================================

.. note::
  To sell perishable products with expiration dates, the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` for the
  :guilabel:`Location` the products are stored in must be set to
  :abbr:`FEFO (First Expiry, First Out)`. If there is not enough stock of perishable products in
  one lot, Odoo will automatically take the remaining quantity required from a second lot with the
  next-soonest expiration date. Removal strategies can also be set on

>   :guilabel:`Product Categories`.

Reviewer 2: To sell perishable products with expiration dates, the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` for the
  :guilabel:`Location` the products are stored in must be set to
  :abbr:`FEFO (First Expiry, First Out)`. 
  
  If there is not enough stock of perishable products in one lot, Odoo will automatically take the remaining quantity required from a second lot with the second-closest expiration date. Removal strategies can also be set on
  :guilabel:`Product Categories`.
  
  
  (**it may be beneficial to break down how to do these things, with a quick :menuselection: and step-by-step, so they can quickly create an example to follow along with the doc.**)

.. seealso::
    - :doc:`../../routes/strategies/removal`

Selling perishable products with expiration dates is done the same as any other type of product.
The first step in selling perishable products is to create a sales order. To do that, go to
:menuselection:`Sales --> Create` to create a new quotation, and fill out the information. Add a
:guilabel:`Customer`, click :guilabel:`Add a product` to add products to the :guilabel:`Product`

> lines, then set a :guilabel:`Quantity`.

Reviewer 2: Selling perishable products with expiration dates is done the same as any other type of product.
The first step in selling perishable products is to create a sales order. 

To do that, go to :menuselection:`Sales application --> Create` to create a new quotation, and fill out the information on the sales order form. 

Add a :guilabel:`Customer`, click :guilabel:`Add a product` to add the desired products to the :guilabel:`Product`
lines, then set a :guilabel:`Quantity`.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab. Under the :guilabel:`Delivery` section, change the

> :guilabel:`Delivery Date` to a date after the expected date, and click the

Reviewer 2: can you briefly explain why this configuration is being made?

> :guilabel:`green checkmark` to confirm the date. Finally, :guilabel:`Confirm` the sales order.

Reviewer 2: When I clicked 'Confirm' I saw the 'Delivery' smart button appear, but it had the number "3" in it - and when clicked, it showed a list of 3 necessary transfers for this particular product (that I made sure had a BoM for the sake of demo). Either way, I believe I have to go to each transfer to individually Validate/Apply. Just something that might be worth mentioning in one way or another. Or, perhaps I just made a mistake along the way! haha

> :guilabel:`green checkmark` to confirm the date. Finally, :guilabel:`Confirm` the sales order.

Author: Hmm, I will look into this since I don't think that happened for me. I'll run through and make sure!

:guilabel:`Done` quantities and deliver the products. If the products are delivered before
the :guilabel:`Alert Date` set on the product form, then no alerts will be created.

View expiration dates for lots & serial numbers
===============================================

To view and group all products with expiration dates by lot number, go to :menuselection:`Inventory
--> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`. Remove any :guilabel:`Filters` in the
:guilabel:`Search bar`, then click :guilabel:`Group By`, :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and click
the :guilabel:`drop-down` to select :guilabel:`Expiration Date.` :guilabel:`Apply` the filter. This
will break down all perishable products, their :guilabel:`Expiration Dates`, and the assigned lot
number.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-group-by-dates.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Group by expiration dates on lots and serial numbers page.

To see any expiration alerts for products that are either expired (or will expire soon), remove all
:guilabel:`Filters` from the :guilabel:`Search bar`. Then, click :guilabel:`Filters`, then
:guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`.

> Expiration alerts

Reviewer 2: I think this title might be better suited just above the paragraph above it. That paragraph could serve as a solid lead-in intro into the rest of the section. Just something to think about...

-----------------

To see expiration alerts, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.
Then, click into a :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` containing perishable products. Once on the serial

> number form, click the :guilabel:`Dates` tab to see all expiration information about the products.

Reviewer 2: To see expiration alerts, go to :menuselection:`Inventory application --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Then, click into a :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` with perishable products. Doing so reveals the serial
number detail form. On the serial number detail form, click the :guilabel:`Dates` tab to see all expiration information related to the products.

Click :guilabel:`Edit` to edit the form, then change the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` to today's
date (or earlier), and :guilabel:`Save` changes. The lot number now displays a red
:guilabel:`Expiration Alert` below it at the top of the lot form to indicate that the products in
this lot are either expired or expiring soon. Click back to the :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers`
page (via the breadcrumbs) and click :guilabel:`Filters`, then click :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`

> to see the new alert.

Reviewer 2: To edit the form, click :guilabel:`Edit` in the upper-left corner of the form, then change the :guilabel:`Expiration Date` to the new desired date, and click :guilabel:`Save` to save those changes. 

After saving, the lot number form displays a red :guilabel:`Expiration Alert` at the top of the form to indicate that the products in this lot are either expired or expiring soon. 

From here, click back to the :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page (via the breadcrumbs), and click :guilabel:`Filters`, then select :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts` to see the new alert.

:guilabel:`Traceability` smart button to see the updated :guilabel:`Traceability Report`, which
includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the :guilabel:`Product` being traced; the
:guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`; and more.

Set expiration dates on manufactured products
=============================================

Expiration dates can also be generated for products manufactured in-house. To assign expiration
dates to manufactured products, a manufacturing order (MO) needs to be completed.

To create a :abbr:`MO (manufacturing order)`, go to :menuselection:`Manufacturing app --> Operations
--> Manufacturing Orders`, and click :guilabel:`Create`. Choose a product to manufacture from the
:guilabel:`Product` field drop-down menu, then select the :guilabel:`Quantity` to produce.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-manufacturing-order.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Manufacturing order for product with expiration date.

.. note::
   To manufacture a product, there must be materials to consume in the :guilabel:`Product` lines.
   This can be achieved either by creating a :guilabel:`Bill of Material` for the

>    :guilabel:`Product`, or manually adding materials to consume by clicking :guilabel:`Add a line`.

Author: Everywhere else, yes, it is Bill of Materials with (s) plural... but in this one label in Odoo it doesn't have an S, so I elected to keep it true to the UI, even though it doesn't sound right

pop-up appears, revealing a detail form for that specific number.

On that pop-up, under the :guilabel:`Dates` tab, all expiration information that was previously
configured for the product is displayed. That same information is also available on the detail form
for that specific product, or by going to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial
Numbers`.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-dates-tab-lot-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Dates tab with expiration information for specific lot number.

Sell products with expiration dates
===================================

Selling perishable products with expiration dates is done the same as any other type of product. The
first step in selling perishable products is to create a sales order.

To do that, go to :menuselection:`Sales app --> Create` to create a new quotation, and fill out the
information on the sales order form.

Add a :guilabel:`Customer`, click :guilabel:`Add a product` to add the desired products to the
:guilabel:`Product` lines, and set a :guilabel:`Quantity` for the products.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab. Under the :guilabel:`Delivery` section, change the

> :guilabel:`Delivery Date` to a date after the expected date, and click the :guilabel:`green
> checkmark` to confirm the date. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the sales order.

Reviewer 3: Suggestions

1. specify that it's an icon
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Delivery Date` to a date after the expected date, and click the :guilabel:`green
checkmark` icon  to confirm the date. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the sales order.
```

2. ...or use a standard emoji (~= v1.0)
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Delivery Date` to a date after the expected date, and click the :guilabel:`✅
(checkmark)` icon to confirm the date. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the sales order.
```

receipt form.

On the warehouse receipt form, click :guilabel:`Validate`, and then :guilabel:`Apply` in the
accompanying pop-up window, to automatically process all :guilabel:`Done` quantities, and deliver
the products to the customer.

If the products are delivered before the :guilabel:`Alert Date` set on the product form, then no
alerts will be created.

.. important::
   To sell perishable products with expiration dates, the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` for the
   :guilabel:`Location` the products are stored in must be set to :abbr:`FEFO (First Expiry, First
   Out)`. If there is not enough stock of perishable products in one lot, Odoo will automatically
   take the remaining quantity required from a second lot with the next-soonest expiration date.
   Removal strategies can also be set on :guilabel:`Product Categories`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/routes/strategies/removal`

View expiration dates for lots & serial numbers
===============================================

To view (and/or group) all products with expiration dates by lot number, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

> Once there, remove any default :guilabel:`Filters` in the :guilabel:`search bar`. Then, click

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once there, remove any default search filters from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar. Then, click
```

> :guilabel:`Group By`, click :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and click the drop-down to select
> :guilabel:`Expiration Date.` Finally, click :guilabel:`Apply` to apply the filter.

Reviewer 3: Another way to write this so we're not saying "click" repetitively.
```suggestion
:guilabel:`Group By`, choose :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and then select the :guilabel:`Expiration
Date` parameter from the drop-down menu. Finally, :guilabel:`Apply` the filter.
```

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-group-by-dates.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Group by expiration dates on lots and serial numbers page.

Expiration alerts
-----------------

To see expiration alerts, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Then, click into a :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` with perishable products. Doing so reveals the
serial number detail form. On the serial number detail form, click the :guilabel:`Dates` tab to see
all expiration information related to the products.

To edit the form, click :guilabel:`Edit` in the upper-left corner of the form, then change the
:guilabel:`Expiration Date` to today's date (or earlier), and click :guilabel:`Save` to save
changes.

After saving, the lot number form displays a red :guilabel:`Expiration Alert` at the top of the form
to indicate that the products in this lot are either expired or expiring soon. From here, click back
to the :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page (via the breadcrumbs).

To see the new expiration alert, or any expiration alerts for products that are expired (or will

> expire soon), remove all :guilabel:`Filters` from the :guilabel:`search bar` on the
> :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
expire soon), remove all of the search filters from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar on the
:guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` dashboard.
```

> Then, click :guilabel:`Filters`, then :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`.

Reviewer 3: need a conjunction here
```suggestion
Then, click :guilabel:`Filters`, and choose :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`.
```

accompanying pop-up window, to automatically process all :guilabel:`Done` quantities, and deliver
the products to the customer.

If the products are delivered before the :guilabel:`Alert Date` set on the product form, then no
alerts will be created.

.. important::
   To sell perishable products with expiration dates, the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` for the
   :guilabel:`Location` the products are stored in must be set to :abbr:`FEFO (First Expiry, First
   Out)`. If there is not enough stock of perishable products in one lot, Odoo will automatically
   take the remaining quantity required from a second lot with the next-soonest expiration date.
   Removal strategies can also be set on :guilabel:`Product Categories`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/routes/strategies/removal`

View expiration dates for lots & serial numbers
===============================================

To view (and/or group) all products with expiration dates by lot number, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Once there, remove any default search filters from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar. Then, click

> :guilabel:`Group By`, Choose :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and select the :guilabel:`Expiration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Group By`, choose :guilabel:`Add Custom Group`, and select the :guilabel:`Expiration
```

   :align: center
   :alt: Group by expiration dates on lots and serial numbers page.

Expiration alerts
-----------------

To see expiration alerts, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Then, click into a :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` with perishable products. Doing so reveals the
serial number detail form. On the serial number detail form, click the :guilabel:`Dates` tab to see
all expiration information related to the products.

To edit the form, click :guilabel:`Edit` in the upper-left corner of the form, then change the
:guilabel:`Expiration Date` to today's date (or earlier), and click :guilabel:`Save` to save
changes.

After saving, the lot number form displays a red :guilabel:`Expiration Alert` at the top of the form
to indicate that the products in this lot are either expired or expiring soon. From here, click back
to the :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page (via the breadcrumbs).

To see the new expiration alert, or any expiration alerts for products that are expired (or will
expire soon), remove all of the search filters from the :guilabel:`Search...` bar on the
:guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` dashboard.

> Then, click :guilabel:`Filters`, and Choose :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then, click :guilabel:`Filters`, and choose :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`.
```

exclusively, buy and sell perishable products.

.. seealso::
   - :doc:`lots`
   - :doc:`serial_numbers`

Configuration
=============

To enable the use of *Expiration Dates*, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Configuration -->
Settings`, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section. Then, click the
:guilabel:`checkbox` to enable the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature.

Once that feature is activated, a new option will appear to enable :guilabel:`Expiration Dates`.
Click that :guilabel:`checkbox` to enable the feature, and be sure to :guilabel:`Save` changes.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-enabled-settings.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Enabled lots and serial numbers and expiration dates settings.

.. tip::
   Once the :guilabel:`Lots & Serial Numbers` feature is activated, additional features appear to
   :guilabel:`Display Lots & Serial Numbers on Delivery Slips`; to
   :guilabel:`Display Lots & Serial Numbers on Invoices`; and to
   :guilabel:`Display Expiration Dates on Delivery Slips`. Activating these features helps with
   end-to-end traceability, making it easier to manage product recalls, identify "bad" batches of

>    products, and more.

Reviewer 4: These lines can be broken earlier within the :guilabel: tags

.. important::
   To be tracked using lots or serial numbers, or to configure expiration information, products
   *must* have their :guilabel:`Product Type` set as :guilabel:`Storable Product` under the
   :guilabel:`General Information` tab.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Inventory` tab, and scroll down to the :guilabel:`Traceability` section.
From here, make sure that either :guilabel:`By Unique Serial Number` or :guilabel:`By Lots` is
checked.

Once it is, a new :guilabel:`Expiration Date` checkbox appears that must also be clicked. When both
are enabled, a new :guilabel:`Dates` field will appear to the right.

.. note::
   If a product has stock on-hand prior to activating tracking by lots or serial numbers, an
   inventory adjustment might need to be performed in order to assign lot numbers to the existing
   stock.

.. tip::
   For processing large quantities of products on receipts or deliveries, it is recommended to
   track :guilabel:`By Lots`, so multiple products can be traced back to the same lot, if any
   issues arise.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-product-configuration.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Expiration dates configuration on the product form.

> Under the :guilabel:`Dates` field, there are four categories of expiration information to

Reviewer 4: Line can break after configure

configure for the product:

- :guilabel:`Expiration Time`: the number of days after receiving products (either from a vendor or
  in stock after production) in which goods may become dangerous and should not be used or

>   consumed.

Reviewer 4: can break line after consumed.

- :guilabel:`Best Before Time`: the number of days before the expiration date in which the goods
  start deteriorating, *without* necessarily being dangerous yet.
- :guilabel:`Removal Time`: the number of days before the expiration date in which the goods should
  be removed from stock.
- :guilabel:`Alert Time`: the number of days before the expiration date in which an alert should be
  raised on goods in a particular lot or containing a particular serial number.

.. note::
  The values entered into these fields automatically compute the expiration date for goods entered

>   into stock, whether purchased from a vendor or manufactured in-house.

Reviewer 4: Text within an admonition block needs to align with the first character of the admonition title, so `n` in `note` - the text here is one space short of alignment

Once all the expiration information has been configured, click :guilabel:`Save` to save all
changes.

.. tip::
  If the :guilabel:`Dates` field is not populated with any values for expiration information, dates

>   (and lots) can be manually assigned upon receipts and deliveries in and out of the warehouse.

Reviewer 4: Same thing as the note admonition block, add another space for alignment with `t` in `tip`

  Even when assigned, they can still be overwritten and changed manually if needed, as well.

Set expiration dates on receipts with lots & serial numbers
===========================================================

Generating expiration dates for *incoming* goods can be done directly from the purchase order. To

> create a purchase order, go to the :guilabel:`Purchase` app and click :guilabel:`Create` to create

Reviewer 4: swap the :guilabel: for :menuselection: on *Purchase* here because we are directing/navigating the user to a particular location

a new Request for Quotation (RFQ).

Then, fill out the information by adding a :guilabel:`Vendor`, and by adding products to the

> :guilabel:`Product` lines by clickng :guilabel:`Add a product`.

Reviewer 4: Spelling: clickng ➡️ clicking

Choose the desired quantity to order by changing the number in the :guilabel:`Quantity` column, and
click :guilabel:`Confirm Order`. This converts the :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` into a
purchase order.

Click the :guilabel:`Receipt` smart button at the top of the purchase order to be taken to the
:guilabel:`Warehouse Receipt Form`.

.. note::
  Clicking :guilabel:`Validate` before assigning a serial number to the ordered product quantities
  causes a :guilabel:`User Error` popup to appear. The popup requires entry of a lot or serial
  number for the ordered products. The :abbr:`RFQ (Request for Quotation)` cannot be validated

>   without an assigned lot or serial number.

Reviewer 4: admonition text alignment again

includes: a :guilabel:`Reference` document; the :guilabel:`Product` being traced; the
:guilabel:`Lot/Serial #`; and more.

Set expiration dates on manufactured products
=============================================

Expiration dates can also be generated for products manufactured in-house. To assign expiration
dates to manufactured products, a manufacturing order (MO) needs to be completed.

To create a :abbr:`MO (Manufacturing Order)`, go to :menuselection:`Manufacturing --> Operations
--> Manufacturing Orders`, and click :guilabel:`Create`. Choose a product to manufacture from the
:guilabel:`Product` field drop-down menu, then select the :guilabel:`Quantity` to produce.

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-manufacturing-order.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Manufacturing order for product with expiration date.

.. note::
   To manufacture a product, there must be materials :guilabel:`To Consume` in the
   :guilabel:`Product` lines. This can be achieved either by creating a :guilabel:`Bill of Material`
   for the :guilabel:`Product`, or manually adding materials to consume by clicking

>    :guilabel:`Add a line`.

Reviewer 4: can break within the :guilabel:

Then, click :guilabel:`Confirm`.

Next to :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`, either select an existing lot number from the drop-down
menu, or click the green :guilabel:`+` sign to automatically assign a new lot number.

Then, select a number of units for the :guilabel:`Quantity` field, and click
:guilabel:`Mark as Done`.

Click on the :guilabel:`External Link` icon in the assigned :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` field,
and a popup appears, revealing a detail form for that specific number.

On that popup, under the :guilabel:`Dates` tab, all expiration information that was previously
configured for the product is displayed. That same information is also available on the detail form
for that specific product, or by going to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products -->

> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Reviewer 4: can break within the :menuselection:

.. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-dates-tab-lot-number.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Dates tab with expiration information for specific lot number.

Sell products with expiration dates
===================================

Selling perishable products with expiration dates is done the same as any other type of product.
The first step in selling perishable products is to create a sales order.

To do that, go to

> :menuselection:`Sales --> Create` to create a new quotation, and fill out the information on the

Reviewer 4: line broke too early

sales order form.

Add a :guilabel:`Customer`, click :guilabel:`Add a product` to add the desired products to the
:guilabel:`Product` lines, then set a :guilabel:`Quantity`.

Then, click the :guilabel:`Other Info` tab. Under the :guilabel:`Delivery` section, change the
:guilabel:`Delivery Date` to a date after the expected date, and click the

> :guilabel:`green checkmark` to confirm the date. Finally, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to confirm the

Reviewer 4: can break within the :guilabel:

sales order.

Click the :guilabel:`Delivery` smart button at the top of the sales order to see the
:guilabel:`Warehouse Receipt Form`.

On the :guilabel:`Warehouse Receipt Form`, click :guilabel:`Validate`, and then :guilabel:`Apply`
in the accompanying popup window, to automatically process all :guilabel:`Done` quantities, and
deliver the products.

If the products are delivered before the :guilabel:`Alert Date` set on the product form, then no
alerts will be created.

.. important::
   To sell perishable products with expiration dates, the :guilabel:`Removal Strategy` for the
   :guilabel:`Location` the products are stored in must be set to

>    :abbr:`FEFO (First Expiry, First Out)`. If there is not enough stock of perishable products in

Reviewer 4: can break line within :abbr:

   one lot, Odoo will automatically take the remaining quantity required from a second lot with the
   next-soonest expiration date. Removal strategies can also be set on
   :guilabel:`Product Categories`.

.. seealso::

>    - :doc:`../../routes/strategies/removal`

Reviewer 4: unnecessary bullet point for single item within a :seealso:

   :alt: Group by expiration dates on lots and serial numbers page.

Expiration alerts
-----------------

To see expiration alerts, go to :menuselection:`Inventory --> Products --> Lots/Serial Numbers`.

Then, click into a :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` with perishable products. Doing so reveals the
serial number detail form. On the serial number detail form, click the :guilabel:`Dates` tab to see
all expiration information related to the products.

To edit the form, click :guilabel:`Edit` in the upper-left corner of the form, then change the
:guilabel:`Expiration Date` to today's date (or earlier), and :guilabel:`Save` changes.

After saving, the lot number form displays a red :guilabel:`Expiration Alert` at the top of the
form to indicate that the products in this lot are either expired or expiring soon. From here,
click back to the :guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page (via the breadcrumbs).

To see the new expiration alert, or any expiration alerts for products that are expired (or will
expire soon), remove all :guilabel:`Filters` from the :guilabel:`Search bar` on the
:guilabel:`Lots/Serial Numbers` page.

Then, click :guilabel:`Filters`, then :guilabel:`Expiration Alerts`.

> .. image:: expiration_dates/expiration-dates-expiration-alert.png

Reviewer 4: for all of the images - the filenames currently have the text `expiration-dates-` prepended within each image filename, this is unnecessary since it is already *implied* because these images are within the `expiration_dates` folder.

This principle keeps image filenames concise while still being descriptive.
